.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2014  Chris Boot <debian@bootc.net>
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH NRPE-NG 1 "2014-11-07" "nrpe-ng"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
nrpe-ng \- the next generation Nagios Remote Plugin Executor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nrpe-ng
\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIG_FILE\fR
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnrpe-ng\fR is a rewrite of NRPE, the Nagios Remote Plugin Executor. It is a
combination of a daemon, \fBnrpe-ng\fR, and a client program,
\fBcheck_nrpe_ng\fR, which work in concert to run Nagios check scripts on
remote hosts. This man page is for the daemon component that runs on the hosts
on which you wish to run the check programs.
.SH OPTIONS
This program supports the following options:
.TP
.B \-h
Show a summary of the available command-line options.
.TP
.B \-v
Display the program's version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable debugging mode, which produces much more verbose logging but prevents
the program from logging to syslog.
.TP
\fB\-\-c\fR \fICONFIG_FILE\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fICONFIG_FILE\fR
Specify the configuraiton file to use when running the daemon. This option is
required.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-daemon\fR
Fork the program and continue running in the background as a daemon. This mode
is the default, so neither of these options need to be given to gain this
behaviour.
.TP
.B \-f
Do \fBnot\fR fork into the background and remain in the foreground. This option
is the opposite of \fB\-d\fR or \fB\-\-daemon\fR, and may be useful for
debugging.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nrpe-ng.cfg (5),
https://github.com/bootc/nrpe-ng
